1 - Outright fraud, on occasion, possibly made worse by systematic pressure on researchers.
2 - Organized scams that are demonstrably getting more widespread
3 - The generally broken incentive structure that affects pretty much everyone. Economic pressure encourages researchers to publish papers that get cited. And so they develop strategies to make that as simple as possible, which is not by doing good science. The easiest way to publish papers that get  cited is to create useless garbage that the public doesn’t understand or doesn’t care  about, and that their colleagues approve of, but that ultimately benefits no one besides  scientists themselves. This works particularly well if no one besides the people in the field  feels competent to judge what they’re even doing. It’s not like they sit down and decide to  do useless research for the rest of their life just to continue getting paid. It’s  that the way that the system is organized, this is the winning strategy. The winning strategy in science is to be useless. Isn’t he winning strategy to, you know, make a  revolutionary breakthrough? Yes, but. To do that, you have to do research in the first place. And  where do you get the funding for that? And so, scientists come to think of useless paper  production as a necessary evil on the way to a breakthrough that never happens because in  the end all they do is produce those useless papers. Which of course they would never admit. Scientist will defend their useless research as allegedly “normal”. And to be fair, this has been  going on for so long that in some sense it has indeed become normal. This is why the return on  investment in science has gone down. They think it’s fine that way, they don’t want to change  it, they want you to believe it’s fine, and most people believe it. With all this complacency it’d  be surprising if progress had NOT slowed down.
